[ACIX-1916] feat(ai): Create `/follow-pr` skill (#54482)
DataDog/datadog-agent: .agents/skills/follow-pr/SKILL.md

---
name: follow-pr
description: >-
  Monitor the current PR's GitLab pipeline to completion, then report success or investigate a failure.
  Use when the user asks to follow, babysit, watch, or wait on a PR/pipeline, or just after pushing to / creating a PR.
model: sonnet
---

# Follow PR

Watch the latest Gitlab CI pipeline for the current PR to a terminal state and report the outcome.

## Step 0: Ensure correct environment
The appropriate tool for this usecase is `ddgl`, and more specifically `ddgl attach`.
Check if `ddgl` is available - `which ddgl`. If so, move to [Step 1](#step-1-determine-the-target). Otherwise, use a dev env as specified below.

### Ensuring a dev env

> Check for the existence of a previous dev env by using `dda env dev show`.

Reviewer: I don't remember if it is applicable on windows, but there is also `/.started` to detect if we are already in a dev env
I recommend to handle this case in the script (= already in a dev env but ddgl is not available)
In that case I would fail with a useful error message

All pipeline discovery, polling, follow/rebind, and timeout handling is covered by the internals of `ddgl attach`.
Do not implement a second polling loop or persist monitoring state of your own.

Check whether you have a long-lived monitoring tool available, one that can run a command in the background and forward each stdout line as it arrives, without a timeout of its own (e.g. Claude Code's `Monitor` tool).

**With such a tool:** start it on

```bash
ddgl attach --plain --follow --detail=full [--ref <ref> | --pipeline <id>]
```

and wait for a `[FINAL]` line — no `--timeout` needed.

**Without one:** run it in the foreground, bounded so the invocation cannot
outlive your own harness timeout:

```bash
ddgl attach --plain --follow --detail=full --timeout 600 [--ref <ref> | --pipeline <id>]
```

If the `[FINAL]` line reports a timeout (not a pipeline outcome), start an identical invocation again.
This is safe: `attach` is stateless and each invocation begins with a fresh snapshot of the pipeline.

> NOTE: If the pipeline is already terminal or does not exist when you start monitoring, the user might have just pushed and the pipeline is still waiting to be created.

> > In this case, wait for a minute or two and then re-attempt monitoring. The `--follow` argument will make sure `ddgl attach` always monitors the latest pipeline for the ref.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In this case, wait for a 60 seconds and then re-attempt monitoring. The `--follow` argument will make sure `ddgl attach` always monitors the latest pipeline for the ref.
```

I would be precise here so behavior is more predictible

## Step 3: Interpret the output

You may see:

- `[POLL]` - rollup summary after a changed poll tick (jobs done/total, stage,
  failure count). Informational only.
- `[INFO]` - an informational log from `ddgl` itself.
- `[PIPE]` - a change in the pipeline status.
- `[JOB]` - a job finished running and changed state.
- `[FINAL]` - the terminal, authoritative outcome. Treat this line as the
  source of truth regardless of the command's exit code — it names the pipeline id, terminal status, and, on failure, the failed job names.

## Step 4: Act on the outcome

- **Pipeline Success:** stop monitoring and report the pipeline succeeded.

> - **Some job failed, but the pipeline is still running**: Ask the user whether to continue monitoring, or if this job failure is already a problem. If it is, move to [Step 5](#step-5-follow-up-on-failures)

Reviewer: Should we mention something about automatic job retries or it is abstracted by ddgl?

Author: That's more meant as a follow-up - for now I wanted to restrict this skill to only _following_ the status of a PR. Agree it's not very useful as-is, but it's a base for a more complex skill that will include stuff like auto-retrying (which, yes, will also be done via ddgl)

Reviewer: Sorry my comment was not super clear: I meant we should avoid to ping the PR author if a job failed but is retried because of default Gitlab configuration
It should ping you when the job has definitely failed
I don't know what would be ddgl behavior in that case (you see failure only after all the retries or not?)

Author: Oh right that makes sense - and you're right, I _think_ it will not consider retries (i.e. ping you after the first failure).
I think it would be better to have some handling for this in `ddgl` (something like `[JOB][RETRY] ...`), but in the meantime I can add a word about this in the skill
